
                Ajile and JIRA


1)Ajile Process/Ajile Model/Ajile Methodology
        Ajile is iterative and incremental process. In this process, cx don't need to wait till
the complete software is developed( Initially, cx can get a piece of software with important features).
And also, this process accomodate cx's requirement change.
    Communication is very good bw not only dev and tester but among entire team including business 
people, designersdevs and testers etc.

Advantages:
    1)Delivery of the software is fast as compare to the other models.
    2)Cx's requirement change is allowed at any time.
    3)Every 2-3 week, cx can get a piece of software
    4)Good co-operation bw all the teams.

Disadvantages:
    1)Very less no of documentation because of quick delivery , but meetings are conducted often.
    
2)Scrum:
        Ajile is a process, to follow that, scrum is a tool/framework that will help. So, Scrum is a 
framework through which we build software product by following agile principles.

Scrum team includes Product owner, scrum master, all people who are working as Developers and Testers.

a)Product owner: 
    He collect all the features from cx's and prioritize the features which needs to be impleted at first 
cycle. He can either accept and reject the product build. He always in touch with cx.

b)Scrum Master:
    The main role is facilitating and driving agile process. The person who is all known about agile process.

c)Dev and testers- Develop and test the software.

Scrum Terminologies:
-------------------
        User story- That represents a feature or module in a software.
        Epic      - A collection of multiple stories(Huge requirement. user stories will be 
derived from user story).
        Product Backlog-Contains list of user stories collected from cx and prepared by product owner. First 
step in the agile process, later this will be converted into either user stories or epics.
        Sprint/iterations- A period of time to complete the one entire user story(To design,code and test). 
This is decided by product owner and dev and test team. Usually 2-4 weeks.
        Sprint planning meeting- Meeting conducted by the teams to define which sprint delivered at which 
time. Simply when we will deliver what.
        Sprint Backlog- The list of user stories commited by the dev and test team for a specific sprint.
(The features accepted by the dev and qa team to deliver on a paricular period of time.)

Scrum Meeting/Standup Meeting/Scrum call- Conducted by the scrum master on each day about 15 mins with the team.
        Team will focus on 3 questions:
            1)What did yesterday
            2)What about today
            3)Is there any blockers facilitating
Sprint retrospective meeting- Conducted once after completition of each sprint.
Just like important things to improve in the next sprint.

        Story point- Rough estimatioin of user stories, will be given by the Dev and QA team in the 
form of fibonacci series.

1 story point- 1 hour/ 1 day. (This is known as story point estimation.)
        Burndown Chart- Shows how much work remaining in the sprint. This is maintatined by scrum master
daily.




